Hello and welcome.
In this lecture we are going to make it such that when you go through a portal the state that you left
the last scene in is exactly the same we can see I've got these two guards hanging around the portal
waiting to kill me because as I went through the portal last time they were chasing me and I didn't
manage to get rid of them because that is a way that we're saving our state.
So let's dive in and see how we can save and load when going through a portal so at the moment if I've
got a guard following me hot on my tail and I go through a portal and then come back that guard is no
longer there.
He's walled off back to wherever he was.
But even if I had killed him at the last moment and I came back that guard won't be loaded back unless
I actually hit the load button.
That's not what we want.
We want to be able to load back that guard whenever we enter the world so generally what we want to
happen is for these portals to act as checkpoints when we go through one the old world has been saved.
The new world gets loaded.
How are we going to do that.
Well the best place for that to happen is in our portal CSI script.
We already have all the transition code going on here if we had some saving code or some calls out to
the saving system.
That would be the perfect place.
But before we can do that we need to expose that ability from our saving wrapper not our saving system
because remember that our saving system doesn't know what our default save file is.
So the saving wrapper needs to be the place.
So first of all I'm going to extract the saving method that is currently one line which would get that
component saving system and we call it without default save file and we'll extract that into a save
method that will be public.
So let's go ahead and extract it and rename to save and I'm going to make it public as well.
OK so that is now both being called in the whenever the key code S is down but also it will be can be
called from outside of here.
Now I'm gonna do the same thing with the loading system.
Let's go ahead and extract that method and rename it to load and again make that public too.
So these can both now be called from elsewhere.
And one more modification I want to make is to add a start method in here so that we can call load when
we first start our game.
Because one thing we're noticing is that if we start up the game at the moment it was not going back
to the previous save.
But if I hit play now it is taking me back to a previous safe which actually took me through a poor
source.
And the interesting little bug that might not be right but if we go back through the portal you notice
it hasn't gone to that saved location I had a couple of guards standing by the portal.
Now this isn't quite right.
So let's go ahead and challenge you to solve it by creating a portal system a checkpoint portal system.
So first of all you're going to want to save before you unload the scene because obviously if you unload
the scene there's not gonna be the state in that scene anymore to save and then load after you have
finished loading the next scene that is going to be the time when there's all the game objects in the
scene so you can put the state back in from the save file and then before positioning the character
that's the important thing because we position the character to the portal location and if he has been
positioned by loading the save file we want to override that with the portal that he's actually coming
through.
It's a poser video and have a go and see if you can achieve this and don't worry if you come across
a bug with your character not being position property properly like we had in the previous lesson lessons
due to the now format agent.
That is something we're going to fix in the challenge solution.
Suppose we didn't have okay.
Welcome back.
So let's see how far we can get.
So first of all we want to get hold of a saving rapper so I'm going to do this where we're getting hold
of at Fader as well as saving rapper and I'm just gonna call it this saving rapper as well just give
the variable the same name I'm gonna do a find object of type saving rapper and then we're going to
need to include the using RPG saving namespace with controlled dots or the light bulb.
So the saving rapper now can be called I'm going to call it just after we've done a fade out.
So we do a fade out then we can do the saving which might take a while depending on how much state you've
got in your scene.
So that's happening while with fade out to white.
So we're not going to see any rendering glitches or slow frame rate which is a good thing.
And then similarly we're going to want to load back in after our scene has finished loading we're going
to load from the save file but before we've got the other portal on before we've updated the player.
So let's see if that's going to work.
Go ahead and hit play and it is taking me to a random location.
Let's just go and overwrite that with a more logical safe file that doesn't take me to a random location
say hey these guys are following me if I go ahead and save over here then.
Is that going to work.
No because I'll go through the portal.
It'll save them there where they were just before I entered the portal.
And if I go back through that is where they will still be chasing me and that's okay.
That's fine.
Now let's see whether if I go through the other portal I'm going to go to the top of the level as I
would expect because that's the last thing that happens it updates the players the last thing.
Okay.
This is where we've got the bug that I warned you about where have just been stopped by the hills.
And I think the reason here is that we're trying to move the player with the nav mesh enabled.
Why is the nav mesh enabled you're saying like we've actually disabled it in the player's prefab.
The reason it's enabled is because in load what we're doing in load is we are restoring a bunch of stuff
that we go to load here and we go to restore state and we go jumping through all these hoops to go to
the sables restore state which we've got in the safe entity.
You can see that we are disabling the damage but then we're re enabling it at the end which means that
it is actually enabled by the time we get to our portals update player.
So a more robust way of dealing with this instead of relying on the prefab to have it disabled initially
would be to get hold of an nav mesh component and enable and disable and enable it directly.
So when we're updating the transform we're just going to disable.
And also I've got to include the using Unity engine API namespace in order to do this enable and disable
and just copying the lines from salable entity and re enabling the math mesh agents just after we have
updated the players transform.
So it's doing a get nav mesh agent is this right.
No it's doing it on the portal.
So we need to make sure that it's player dot get components and again player dot get component nav mesh
agent is being re enabled at the end of it not not remembering that we are on a portal here rather than
on the player.
So let's see if that has now worked.
If I go ahead and hit play I should be taken through to the other level which is where I was and if
I go through my second portal I should be transported to the top of the level and if I just run through
this level and say I'm going to take a shortcut through the river which is a little bit naughty as should
not be allowed to do that but the game design kind of allows that at the moment that get rid of this
guard he's annoying me so having taken my sneaky shortcut and you can see that those two guards are
exactly where I left them.
So save file and loading file has worked even though I went through a different portal.
Fantastic stuff.
So as I mentioned a couple of lectures ago there is something that annoys me about our saleable entity
and that's the fact that it needs to know about the fact that we want to save the transformers position
for example that has information agent and that it has to do this action scheduler to cancel current
action all that stuff doesn't feel like it's the responsibility of the stable entity to know this.
Surely the movement component should be responsible for changing the position.
Surely the health component should be responsible for restoring its health.
That's what we're going to do in the next lecture making each component responsible for its own state
see that.